{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27380\viewh29080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Hi Moria,\
\
In this folder, I\'92ve collected all the data for one of our experiments.\
I chose the experiment shown in Fig.2 and the experiment we based our Neuron model on (Fig. 3d). In Fig. 4c, it\'92s experiment 10 and in extended Data Fig. 3 it\'92s experiment 4 (where you can see the PSD shape).\
\
I chose it because we based our model on it, i.e. the morphology was representative of our dataset. It has one synapse with a relatively strong EPSP of 1.3 mV. I thought all these things might make your life easier in the beginning\'85\
(These cells were patched on 08.05.2017, hence the file names. And \'914-5\'92 means that the synapse was formed between the 4th and 5th cell patched in the experiment)\
\
This is how the data are organized:\
\
\

\f1\b Data.xlsx
\f0\b0 \
This excel sheet contains a lot of the relevant data you need. (We should talk about how some of these data were generated at some point, e.g. how the spine measurements were acquired.)\
\
\

\f1\b 2017_05_08_A_4-_5.png
\f0\b0 \
Overview image of the neuron morphologies, showing the dendrites of cell 5 (blue) and the axon of cell 4 (black). There were 4 LM contacts, of which 3 did not form synapses (red) and 1 formed the synapse (green).\
This image is very similar to Fig. 2a (although in this figure, blue and black are inverted!)\
\
\

\f1\b 05_08_A_01062017_Splice_shrink_FINISHED_LABEL_Bluecell_spinec91.ASC
\f0\b0 \
This file contains the morphology in ASC format. This is the raw data we got out of Neurolucida and it needs to be processed before you can build a model.\
It doesn\'92t have the synapse marked in it, but I found its exact location: line 14828 (-5.56, -325.88, -451.42) on dend[82].\
There are two things that need to be done:\
- maybe the axon needs to be deleted for your model? (when you import the ASC file into Neuron, it\'92s the long neurite coming out of the bottom of the cell body and going to the bottom left).\
- there are many \'92splice artifacts\'92. The 300\'b5m section that the cells were recorded in had to be re-sliced to 80\'b5m, so we could reconstruct the axons and dendrites in LM.\
Therefore, we had to reconstruct the cell morphologies in these different sections and align them. Splice artifacts happen whenever you trace a neurite across these cuts between the 80\'b5m sections. \
Then you can get these sudden \'91jumps\'92 in the Z dimension. You can fix this in Neuron after importing the ASC file. I do it by going to Edit > largest z change > z-translate rest of tree to parent point.\
Then I do this for all the very obvious \'91jumps in Z\'92. (Sorry if you already know all this. You\'92re probably much more of an expert on this than me! ;-)\
\
\

\f1\b morphology_correctedZ.hoc
\f0\b0 \
I did this Z correction for the obvious splice artifacts in this morphology and saved it in this hoc file. I thought it might be useful to compare how you would do it versus how I did it.\
I\'92m not an expert on how to import and process these morphologies in Neuron, you\'92re probably much more experienced than me, and I\'92d like to learn from you how you do it!\
\
\

\f1\b synapse location
\f0\b0 \
Screenshot taken from Neuron, after I imported the ASC file to highlight the location of the synapse (red dot). Coordinates of the synapse are indicated at bottom left.\
\
\

\f1\b synapse location zoom
\f0\b0 \
Screenshot taken from Neuron, this time only showing the branchlet that the synapse is formed on and its exact location (red dot).\
\
\

\f1\b 2017_05_08_A_4-5_stable_conc_aligned_selected_Moria.abf
\f0\b0 \
This abf file contains the EPSP recordings. It has 2 channels, the first channel (CH0) is the one we are interested in. It\'92s the somatic recording of cell 5, which gets the synapse from cell 4.\
(You can see that also CH1, i.e. cell 4 receives a synapse from cell 5 (they are recurrently connected), which is another one of the connection that is in the paper, which we can look at later\'85)\
In total, I could record 275 \'91stable\'92 EPSP sweeps in this experiment. (How \'91stable sweeps\'92 were defined is explained in the methods sections, and we can talk about it later, if you want.)\
In this abf file, I selected only the first 100 stable sweeps and deleted all the failures (whenever an action potential in the presynaptic neuron did not trigger an EPSP).\
\
The structure of this experiment is the following:\
CH0:\
short test pulse of -50pA (to test if I still have good electrical access to the cell).\
+1600pA pulse to generate an action potential in cell 5 (to measure the strength of the synapse it forms with cell 4, which we are not interested in at the moment)\
CH1:\
same short test pulse\
the action potential is generated in cell 4 a bit after the one in cell 5, to measure the strength of the synapse it forms with cell 5. You can see the EPSPs in cell 5 (CH0) that happen whenever the action potential is evoked in cell 4 (CH1)\
\
I can send you many more of these stable EPSP recordings by the way.\
\

\f1\b 2017_05_08_A_4-5_stable_conc_aligned_selected_Moria_averaged.abf
\f0\b0 \
This is basically the same as the file above, except that I averaged all of the 92 EPSPs into a single trace. (The averaging is the reason why I excluded all the failures before\'85)\
The average EPSP waveform is probably what you want to use in your simulation?\
\
\

\f1\b 2017_05_08_A_0006.abf
\f0\b0 \
This file contains the IV curve for cell 5 (CH0).\
It starts with a -200pA pulse and then each subsequent pulse is 40pA stronger (i.e. -200pA, -160pA, -120pA,\'85, +160pA\
\
\
\
Have fun! Let me know if everything is clear and if data is missing! :-)}